our oldest daughter was raised in such a
way where we always allowed her to have
her emotions but somewhere she was like
17 years old I was having an off day and
she was having a hard time and she was
like going through it and I was like
trying to give her advice to like make
her feel better and she was like Dad
just let me have my emotions I was like
oh
[__] and I realized
like that is the cause of so much
tension in almost every relationship
that I see is that especially not every
relationship as far as like business
relationships but in every relationship
as far as lovers
relationship and usually what happens is
somebody feels like they're responsible
for the other person's emotions and that
could be a simple as like I'm trying to
make her happy and she's not happy and
it could be I'm trying to make sure he
doesn't get
mad and he's mad it's like we're not
emotionally responsible for one another
we can't be and everybody says whenever
I say that they say to
me but I can make her happy like I
brought her flowers and she became happy
I was like yeah but the next day would
she would she be happy if you brought
her flowers every day can you like
consistently make her happy like that so
I'm not saying like don't care for the
person don't do things that like feel
good to you and allow them to feel good
if that's where they're at but if you're
trying to do do things to make them feel
certain things it's like manipulative
that's not that's not love that's right
it's like oh I want to give something to
you like flowers because I thought of
you and I think it's a wonderful thing
and it's great but it's like if I'm
trying to constantly make you happy and
Chase your happiness or chase making
sure that you're not scared or chase
making sure that you're not angry or
that is just nothing but a disaster for
relationships and and the way that it
works is I am going to try to make sure
that you don't get angry which
means I'm showing you that I'm scared of
your anger which means you feel more
alone which means you're going to get
angry at me because every time you feel
really alone you get angry or it means I
am going to um try to make sure that you
don't feel scared and then you're going
to like it for a little while
maybe then and then it's going to feel
like I'm caretaking you like I'm
treating you like a little kid because
like oh you need to be taken care of
like oh it's going to be okay like and
and then all of a sudden you're
resentful all the time because you're
saying wait I can [__] take care of
myself or let's say you try to make me
happy all the time and then I start
going oh like you need me to be happy
and then I remove my love which makes
you feel like you've failed which makes
you chase me some more so it's so
critical in a relationship to just allow
the other person to have their
emotions right do things that are kind
be compassionate be be gentle be loving
all that good stuff but be yourself and
allow the chips to fall where they may
let the person be angry let the person
be scared let the person be sad let the
person be happy let the person be
excited so what I've noticed is every
emotion that I have a hard
time sitting with with terara or with my
kids is an emotion that I wasn't allowed
to sit with as a kid that I don't like
sitting with so what I found out is what
I'm actually doing is I am trying to
make them feel a certain way so I don't
have to feel a certain way it's it's
even more manipulative than I thought it
was I thought it was at the beginning
like I'm trying to help this person and
then it was oh I am trying to make them
feel good for me so so I don't have to
feel a certain way so I can continue to
be neurotic around my emotions and you
can see this you go into an airplane and
a kid starts to cry
and you stand up and you look at the
airplane and everybody who's freaking
frustrated they were the ones that
weren't allowed to cry as kids it's just
like is as simple as that and so it's
also just deeply disempowering to try to
take somebody's emotion away from them
there's this saying that says never take
uh the bottom away from an addict they
need that bottom to get to
Healing it's very similar like never
take an emotion away from somebody
that's how we learn that's how we grow
it's how we make decisions
and and to take that away from them is
to make them into a child it breeds
resentment in a relationship and then
eventually it'll just kill the sex in
the relationship the reason it kills the
sex is because you want to have sex with
equals you don't want to have sex with
someone you're caretaking that's not how
it's meant to be between a um a romantic
couple it's not a caretaking
relationship it is a supportive
interdependent relationship and so as
soon as that happens in the will start
to die as well so it's really important
just allowing each other to have the
emotions not try to fix it just be with
them
[Music]